## Abstract {.page_break_before}

Hetnets, short for “heterogeneous networks”, contain multiple node and relationship types and offer a way to encode biomedical knowledge.
One such example, Hetionet connects 11 types of nodes
— including genes, diseases, drugs, pathways, and anatomical structures
— with over 2 million edges of 24 types.
Previous work has demonstrated that supervised machine learning methods applied to such networks can identify drug repurposing opportunities.
However, a training set of known relationships does not exist for many types of node pairs, even when it would be useful to examine how nodes of those types are meaningfully connected.
For example, users may be curious not only how metformin is related to breast cancer,
but also how the _GJA1_ gene might be involved in insomnia.
We developed a new procedure, termed hetnet connectivity search, that proposes important paths between any two nodes without requiring a supervised gold standard.
The algorithm behind connectivity search identifies types of paths that occur more frequently than would be expected by chance (based on node degree alone).
We find that predictions are broadly similar to those from previously described supervised approaches for certain node type pairs.
Scoring of individual paths is based on the most specific paths of a given type.
Several optimizations were required to precompute significant instances of node connectivity at the scale of large knowledge graphs.
We implemented the method on Hetionet and provide an online interface at <https://het.io/search>.
We provide an open source implementation of these methods in our new Python package named [hetmatpy](https://github.com/hetio/hetmatpy "Python package for matrix storage and operations on hetnets").
<!--
To validate the method, we show that it identifies much of the same evidence for specific instances of drug repurposing as the previous supervised approach, but without requiring a training set.
-->